I have inside information on Jeffrey
Epstein and why the US government is
reluctant to be more transparent. And I
know this because when I was working in
government meetings were not how shall
we tell the public, but what shall we
tell the public? So often the best we
can get in our skepticism is to know
that we are not being told the truth.
>> I think people need to know the truth.
>> So put on your seat belt. I'm going to
tell you everything and all senior
people in the US government know
everything that you and I have discussed
here today. So you've been behind the
scenes with some of the most successful,
richest, most powerful people on planet
Earth. But what is it you do, Gavin?
>> So I do protective coverage. You know,
any of the ways that wealthy or
prominent people might be targeted. For
example, the Saudi Arabian government
obtained a system which can get into
your phone used it on Jeff Bezos. So our
work was to figure out how it happened.
>> Why would a government want to hack the
founder of Amazon's phone? So, I'll tell
you in a second, but we're all not as
careful as we could be in terms of what
we say, what we text, and there is
absolutely no protection viable for the
confidentiality of your phone. Do you
have any skepticism about that?
>> I just have a lot of ignorance to how
this whole world works.
>> Lucky you. But all power centers in
human history lie. There are some
examples of this where we'll start
telling the truth about something, but
years later, things like cancer causing
asbestous and baby powder, 100,000
people dying from heart attacks from
opioids. and we'll see it with mass
vaccination.
>> So, what advice would you give about how
to navigate in the world we're living in
today to avoid risk threat?
>> I've got some core truths. So, first of
all,
guys, I've got a quick favor to ask you.
We're approaching a significant
subscriber milestone on this show, and
roughly 69% of you that listen and love
this show haven't yet subscribed for
whatever reason. If there was ever a
time for you to do us a favor, if we've
ever done anything for you, giving you
value in any way, it is simply hitting
that subscribe button. And it means so
much to myself, but also to my team
because when we hit these milestones, we
go away as a team and celebrate. And
it's the thing, the simple, free, easy
thing you can do to help make this show
a little bit better every single week.
So, that's a favor I would ask you. And
um if you do hit the subscribe button, I
won't let you down. And we'll continue
to find small ways to make this whole
production better. Thank you so much for
being part of this journey. Means the
world. And uh yeah, let's do this.
>> Gavin, we have a mutual friend and that
mutual friend actually sent me a voice
note late last night. Here is what the
voice note says.
>> I'm calling it this crazy hours. I found
out that you're interviewing a dear
friend of mine, Gavin Debecker, I think
in 2 days. I think on the 13th. He is an
extraordinary human being, extraordinary
soul. He comes from a a very tough
background. But what he's done to move
from that background to becoming
probably the single greatest security
expert in the world. He designed the
systems that are used to protect the
Supreme Court. I've met him decades ago
when there was a threat happening to a
former girlfriend of mine and then I was
getting threatening letters and he
deciphered the letters in micros
secondsonds, got the FBI involved and
put a stop to it all. It was
extraordinary what he did.
Wow.
>> That was Tony Robbins for anyone that
didn't recognize
>> I recognize
>> the voice. Yeah, it'd be crazy if
someone didn't.
>> But it got me incredibly incredibly
curious because he said lots of things
there that I found fascinating.
>> Um, the first one I'm going to start
with is he described you helping him
with a personal situation in his life.
And I guess this beggets the question,
>> what is it you do for people like Tony
Robbins? What is it you do for famous
people, for world leaders? What is it
you do, Gavin? The main function of my
company is anti-assination.
So we develop and deploy anti-assination
strategies. Under that under
assassination which you can consider the
worst possible outcome um are lesser
outcomes like other kinds of crimes uh
destruction of of reputation uh threats
that are designed to cause anxiety and
fear. We have a division that does
assessment of threats and management of
threats. We have a division that does
actual protective coverage. That's the
biggest division, meaning actual
physical protectors, fit, young, capable
people, not uh retired ex- cops who are
overweight and on their second career,
but uh you know, people who are who are
really trained for this specific field,
armored vehicles, modifications to
homes, basically everything that fits
into the category of preventing uh uh or
disrupting uh uh efforts to do tissue
damage. So, we're in the business of
preventing tissue damage. And who are
some of the names that you do this for
and have done this for over the years?
>> All of the names that I do it for are uh
never spoken by me. So, uh I don't say
who clients are and I don't say who they
aren't because if I say to you so and so
isn't a client, uh that is information
that might reveal that somebody else is
or something you heard is true or not
true. The way I can describe it to you
though is to say that it's if you took
the 20 people you would assume uh fit
into this category or the 50 um most of
them are clients.
>> I mean according to the internet you
sort of reference certain things before
because these people have spoken or you
know you've been seen in photos.
>> That's right. If a client identifies me
or it happens because I testify in a
court case or something that's a
different animal. It just doesn't come
from I view myself as sort of like a a
psychiatrist or a doctor. I wouldn't be
the one revealing it.
>> And some of those names that have been
revealed by others are Jeff Bezos,
Elizabeth Taylor, Sher Madonna, Barbara
Stysand, and many, many, many more. From
government officials to royalty, etc.,
etc. What was Tony referring to when he
said that you helped him with a
situation with his girlfriend, a threat,
found out that it wasn't who people
thought they were,
>> right? Surely, he was referring to a
case I'll never reveal, and I won't even
acknowledge he's a client.
>> You won't even say he's a client.
>> I won't say it. if you if you have it
from some other source.
>> Tony said it.
>> I I understand your interrogation is
makes all the sense in the world, but I
just don't say it. I don't talk about
clients. There's a bunch of reasons, but
most of all, just absolute
confidentiality. I know it's weird.
Apologies.
>> But I heard you talk about the Jeff
Bezos situation.
>> Uh you heard me talk about uh uh cyber
security and and the vulnerability of
phones. Uh, and the Bezos situation is a
little bit different in that I was
involved very publicly in it, but
clearly with permission of my client and
and organized with my client. Same thing
as when I testify in a court case,
there's no secrecy about it. I'm doing
it, but it doesn't mean that I'll then
do it everywhere. And and so in that
case where you did have Jeff's
permission, the the background context
was there was a newspaper that was going
to publish that he was having an affair
with I think his current wife who wasn't
his wife at the time, Lauren Sanchez,
and you were called upon in that
scenario to figure out what was going on
and you were able to solve that.
>> Yes.
>> What are you able to talk about there?
>> Well, I'll think back to what's already
been what's already been public. Uh and
it won't be from me. It won't be
anything about the client, but it will
be about the Saudi Arabian government,
which at that time had just obtained a u
a system called Pegasus 3, which can get
into your phone remotely. It doesn't
require a click of any kind, meaning you
don't have to acknowledge anything. It
can get in. It's called a no click
exploit. And it could do everything in
your phone from 7,000 miles away that
you could do holding the phone in your
hand. even if it was off, could turn on
the camera, could turn on the
microphone. It exists. It's a very real
thing made by the Israelis. And the
Saudi prince MBS had just gotten it. And
he used it on a group of dissident
around the world. He also used it on
Jeff Bezos. According to the United
Nations, according to lots of things
that have been public, our work was to a
figure it out, figure out how it
happened. In those days, I didn't know
what Pegasus 3 was. I didn't know what
this system was. But the instrumental or
perhaps useful thing for you and your
audience to know is that there is
absolutely no protection viable for the
confidentiality of your phone if a
government wants you. And the reason I
say there's no stopping it is that even
when Apple puts out a new solution uh
which they do an update uh that you know
breaks some particular exploit thousands
of people around the world immediately
start working on the next exploit. So if
I said to you here's a phone and we've
modified it and it's great Mr. President
here you can use this phone for your
confidential conversations. Uh in a
month it won't work anymore. And so I
I'm able to tell clients and friends and
now you and your audience there are a
lot of things being offered for sale
that you know supposedly protect the
confidentiality of your phone calls for
example or your texts. Nothing will work
reliably. There is no solution to that
problem that is reliable.
>> Nothing.
>> Yeah. There is there devices sold.
There's all variety of things. But the
reality is that even if something
worked, even if I said to you, here's
this cool new such and such phone that
will protect you, it'll only protect you
for a while because there's a constant
effort to improve the exploits. And also
I have to say people are somewhat
reluctant and maybe even lazy. I'll put
myself on the list uh and I'll put you
on the list without even knowing you.
We're all not as careful as we could be
in terms of what we say, what we text.
And uh I have a dear friend and client
who every text and every email that he
sends also goes to his executive
assistant and everybody knows it. And
what happens is it controls and
influences his behavior. So when you
send me that off-color joke that I
wouldn't want to see on television, he
responds differently. He doesn't say,
"Oh, that's great." And add another
topping line on top of it. He because he
knows that his assistant in the other
room is seeing that. And so the best we
can all do is be be watchful what we say
and have no pretense of of privacy or
confidentiality because it simply does
not exist. Period. The US government got
into the phones of all of our allies,
the prime ministers, chancellor of West
Germany, uh prime minister of England,
president of France. This is a game
that's going on all the time and uh and
privacy is just not part of the new
world. Why would a government want to
hack the founder of Amazon's phone?
>> Well, the again from what's been public,
the founder of Amazon was also the owner
of the Washington Post. And the Saudis
had killed Kosoji, who was a journalist
for the Washington Post. And the
Washington Post then started putting out
an Arabic edition. That didn't feel good
for the Saudis. And then they really
went after the I'll call him the head of
state. He's the prince but but his
father was alive and was actually the
head of state but they really went after
NBS. I think uh Bezos was a kind of
adversary in that regard. Additionally,
the Saudi sovereign fund developed an
Amazon competitor called something like
N or something like that and so they
were concerned about that and they were
also doing deals with Amazon and so they
could get economic advantage by seeing
what the various executives are texting
to each other. So there was a lot of a
lot of moving parts to that. So all
these things I've just shared with you
were highstakes matters going on around
the time that Kosoji was killed and that
the western countries of the world were
objecting to this assassination team of
his going around and and killing people
and and getting into their phones.
>> In early 2019, Jeff Bezos publicly
accused the US tabloid the National
Inquirer of attempting to blackmail and
extort him by threatening to publish
intimate photos including what he
described as a nude below the belt
selfie of him and his then partner
Lauren Sanchez. Bezos wrote a blog post
saying AMI emailed his lawyer and
security adviser Gavin Debeca's council
threatening to publish personal photos
and texts unless he and his team
publicly stated that the tabloid's
coverage of him was not politically
motivated.
>> Yeah. What they wanted me to do, the
Inquirer and they negotiated with me and
my lawyer over this that I was to go
public and say two things. I was to say
it was not politically motivated and it
was not influenced by outside actors
i.e. the Saudis and that there was no
hacking involved. My question was, why
the hell do you want me to say those two
things specifically? And my I already
knew the answer, of course, because
there was outside influence and there
was hacking. Their request for me was so
strange that we didn't go along with it.
Bezos ultimately wrote a medium post
talking about it publicly and saying,
"Hey, if if if I can't stand up to this,
then where is a regular person?" And
ultimately those pictures were never
published.
>> Yeah. I can't I won't even comment on
whether those pictures exist because
they were doing a fascinating thing by
the way. They were it's sort of like
selling you land in in Florida that's
marsh land and doesn't exist. They were
doing an extortion on a thing they
didn't even have. All right. So it's
kind of a double crime. It's an
extortion and fraud.
>> It's interesting. You know, we we start
talking here about digital coms and that
type of security with everything that's
going on at this exact moment in time
with all these Epstein files and there's
a big conversation, you know, because
now we can see 3,000 3 million documents
and many of them are emails that people
have sent at different times. Some of
the most famous people in the world have
sent emails to Epstein and now those are
all out there in the public to see. I
wondered what your take was on all of
this stuff. You must be watching this
stuff from like through the lens that
you've built your career and uh you must
have an interesting opinion.
>> Some of it I I don't talk about because
I have a fair amount of inside
information and I'm just watchful about
not getting near the line.
>> What do you mean by inside information?
I mean information that that I might
have gotten from uh I'm characterizing
it carefully that I might have gotten
from government agencies that are
clients or that I might have gotten
because uh clients were uh were
implicated like I learned today for
example this morning on the way over
here that I'm in the Epstein files.
>> Oh, really?
>> And here's the way I'm in there is that
someone sent Epstein an article that I
wrote called Fooling Ourselves into war.
And so uh somebody sent that uh article
which is an article I really like by the
way uh published in in Huffington Post
at the time and um they sent that to
Epstein. So that's an example of being
in the Epstein files and yet obviously
never having met Epstein. But I have a
few clients who and friends who the
Epstein group made approaches on and
failed. Meaning they tried to get them
and failed. I'll give you one story
without naming the person, of course. He
goes to meet with Epstein in New York to
ask for money for a charity. And and
Epste is perceived as this big
billionaire, which he was not, by the
way. I'll tell you in a second. And
Epste is in a robe. And they're across
the desk just like you and I are. And
Epstein says, "Hey, um, they're
finishing the meeting." He says, "Hey,
I'm going to get a massage." Hence my
robe. Do you want to get a massage? And
through the hallway, my friend can see a
massage table and a room and a very cute
girl who's the massage therapist, right?
Dressed like a massage therapist. And so
he happened to say no. In fact,
interestingly, he happens to not like
massage, which is itself, you know, a
lot of people would say yes and might
even think it would improve my
relationship with this guy, Jeffrey
Epstein, who I perceive as this rich guy
that I'm trying to get money from my
charity. Um, had that happened,
what a different world for that person.
What a different life. Because in that
room is cameras and then eventually
audio. It didn't start off with audio,
but audio was added later. And then
you're getting a hand job, if I'm
allowed to say hand job, from somebody
who you don't even think about their
age, but turns out to be 17, and you are
in a world of trouble for the rest of
your life. And that's a big piece of
what was going on with Epstein with
cameras in that apartment in New York
and eventually audio cameras and
eventually audio at the island. My take
on it uh and certainly my public take is
that there was a profound uh uh
blackmail operation going on to the
benefit of probably more than one
government, but at least one government.
And when I said a moment ago he wasn't a
billionaire, he wasn't a billionaire.
For one thing, the his earning path is
highly suspect. I'll first tell you what
he was. What he was is a construct. He's
a created construct. Money, wealth,
private jet, private island, fun, not
married, young girls, lots of things.
So, he was a construct. the money uh
$500 million of money came from Les
Wexner who's a wealthy guy who uh owns
or owned I don't know what he's doing
now uh Victoria's Secret notator to the
state of Israel and $500 million was
transferred to Epstein along with power
of attorney to use it and invest it in
the ways he saw fit. Quite an unusual uh
you know I'm mildly wealthy but I'm not
sending you $500 million. I'll tell you
that the idea that you're that you're
doing this is itself extraordinary, but
it was probably the funding mechanism
for this construct. While it's a real
name, uh, Jeffrey Epstein and he has a
real birth certificate and grew up in a
real way, the picture that is presented
to the world is not authentic. It is not
accurate to who he was. And the more you
dig into this story, which of course
people are doing so much now because of
these uh 3 million uh documents so far
and videos by the way and photographs,
there's a lot of material there. The uh
it's very interesting to people right
now and and and more to be learned. But
you know what was actually going on? Why
in the world would anybody say, "Well,
there are national security implications
to some of this content. That's why some
things are redacted." What would that
be? Why would the prosecutor who
prosecuted him in Florida
and provided one of the most unusual
plea bargain deals in world history and
certainly unique in American history
which is imagine I've got you I'm a US
attorney I've got you on some crime and
you say okay I'm going to plead guilty
I'm going to serve my time but please
let my accountant go and please don't
prosecute my wife because all she did
was deliver the stuff and she didn't
wasn't involved in anything and so Those
are called unindicted co-conspirators.
So I make a deal with you and I say,
"Okay, you go to jail for the 8 months
and we will leave the unindicted
co-conspirators unindicted. We won't
prosecute your wife, your son, your your
accountant or what have you." That's a
very normal process. It's it's a it's a
bargaining process, basically. However,
in the Epstein case, the US attorney
gave him a deal that said uh that we
would not prosecute unnamed
co-conspirators.
Holy Who's that? Who's unnamed
co-conspirators? Unnamed co-conspirators
could be 50 people. It could be 75
people. The guy who gave that sweetheart
deal became the secretary of labor. He
was at that time the US attorney for for
Florida. He was asked, "Why did you give
that sweetheart deal?" Because the deal
is ridiculous. Unnamed co-conspirators
will be exempt from prosecution. And and
he said, "I was told he belonged to
intelligence." and then he had to resign
because of this. There was a lot going
on with with with Epstein uh the person
who I mean there's so much of this but
the person who uh sort of brought
Epstein into the world of power and got
him his job at I think Morgan Stanley I
could have that wrong but one of those
big finance companies was William Bar's
father. William Bar was the attorney
general who was the US attorney general
when Epstein was killed or died in
prison depending on your choice of of
reality. So there's so much there but I
won't be the first guest Steven that
you've had uh that says that um it was
an intelligence operation. Why the US
government is reluctant to be more uh
transparent? Some of it is national
security. Some of it is, let's imagine
an ally of ours, uh, is involved in in
that operation. So, there's a reluctance
and there's a question. It's a little
bit like UFOs. Could the public handle
it is the question that's always asked
in these cases. Meaning, could the
public handle it if, for example, the UK
was running an intelligence operation
inside the United States to control
senators and congressmen and powerful
executives and powerful figures and
scientists? Could we handle it? Could
the US public handle it? My take
personally, absolutely. Yes.
>> So, you believe that he was an
intelligence asset and it sounds like
you believe he was an intelligence asset
potentially by a US ally?
>> Yes.
>> So, who is that ally?
>> Israel.
>> You believe that Epstein was an Israel
>> intelligence asset?
>> Yes. Yes, I do. And uh and Glain
Maxwell, just for additional background,
but everybody can find it. Her father
was an Israeli intelligent asset who was
so revered. His funeral ceremony was
held in Israel, was attended by the
prime minister, by I think the last four
or five, by every living head of Mossad
attended. And there were words used in
eulogies like he did things for Israel
that uh the world will never know about.
There's a a lot of good connection there
and a lot of good connective tissue. Um,
some of which I've shared with you
because it's public and some of which
I'm not sharing, but that is uh that is
indeed what I believe. Yes. And
>> not just me, by the way. I you might
already be there. And you've certainly
had another guest sit here and and uh
former CIA guy uh Kira Cow, how do you
say his last name?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh am I close to
>> You're close. It's closer than I would
get.
>> Okay, good. And he was point blank in
saying Israel. So there's no there's no
direct evidence. But what people are
essentially doing is putting the pieces
together to make a picture.
>> There is direct evidence. There's just
not direct evidence I'm sharing at this
moment. But there's the there's plenty
of evidence that that has been public
already, some of which I've shared. I
mean, I could I could do it for 40
minutes, but everybody can just go to
chat GPT. And you know, if you ask Chad
GPT, make the best case for this. A good
thing for viewers to remember. Make the
best case for dot dot dot whatever it
is. If you ask
the first answer you get if you ask a
straight question will always be the
official narrative.
>> I've done exactly that because you said
it. I I asked Chi make the best case for
Epstein being an Israel spy. Here is
what it said. The case that Jeffrey
Epste functioned as an Israeli
intelligence asset rest on a pattern
alignment rather than direct proof. He
ran a sexual sexual compromise operation
resembling known intelligence compromat
tradecraft.
>> Compromat. Yeah, like it's a Russian
word that means we compromise you.
>> Had wealth and access far beyond his
formal career and operated with unusual
legal protection for years. His close
partnership with Gla Maxwell, whose
father had documented intelligence ties
fuel suspicion, as does reporting by
journalists who say Epstein's activities
were discussed in intelligence adjacent
circles. The cameras and the microphones
hidden in his apartment and his home.
How do we know they were there and why?
Well, how I know they were there is a
little bit different from how everybody
knows they were there. And I don't know
enough about the entire history of the
FBI piece, but I'll tell you a funny
part of the FBI piece. When they went to
execute a search warrant at that
apartment after his more recent arrest,
they found and even photographed a bunch
of CDROMs or discs of some kind that
were labeled, but they didn't take them.
They said, "We'll get a warrant and
we'll be back for those." and they came
back after a mere
six days and it was all gone. So where
it is, I don't know. Does the US
government have it? Does somebody else
have it? I just don't know the answer.
But I know from very direct information
regarding the island and the apartment.
I don't know about New Mexico. I just
don't happen to know. Another house that
he owned that there were cameras and
then eventually audio. Audio was added.
Oh, also testimony, by the way, pardon
me. testimony from girls who said girls
who worked there and visited there a lot
who said that in a small room near to
the right of the front door was a whole
thing of videos where the recording was
done.
>> And can you explain to me why recording
videos and audio of people getting those
kinds of uh doing those kinds of things
would be a useful asset for this foreign
adversary to have.
>> Sure. Uh, you know, blackmail is not
always done by calling you up and
saying, um, you know, hey, Stephen, I'm
going to hurt you in the following way
if you don't do A, B, or C. The other
version is is far better, which there's
is even alluded to in some of the now
released material, which is he calls and
he says, "Stephen, I've got terrible
news. Do you remember you had that
massage from Cindy? You know that girl,
Cindy?" "Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember."
Well, she recorded something. She had
something in her bag. She made a
recording. And I got worse news.
Stephen, the girl's 16 and a half. And
now, by the way, you are stomach drops,
diarrhea. You are in a world of stress
right now just hearing that. And he,
instead of being your blackmailer,
becomes your rescuer. He says, "I can
handle it. I can handle it. I can handle
it. She's got the recordings. I don't
know where they are, but I can handle
it. I can handle it. I can handle it.
Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry."
And he owns you now. forever. If you
were involved in a naked experience with
someone who's underage, and there's a
video of it and audio of it as well, you
will do anything that you are asked to
do that is within reason. Very few
people would have the character and the
stamina to do what you describe Bezos
doing, which is that he wrote a public
letter saying, "A very unusual thing
happened to me the other day. I'm being
blackmailed by the National Enquirer."
and here's what they said. That's very,
very rare. And so, you know, a senator,
a congressman, he owned a lot of people.
Do you have any skepticism about that?
>> I
don't have skepticism. I just have a lot
of ignorance to how this whole world
works.
>> Lucky you.
>> And I just have a lot of ignorance to
like, you know, because you hear about
these things in almost like movies. And
uh it appears that we're all kind of
witnessing
something we might have regulated just
to the movies happened before our eyes.
And even when you know I saw some of the
emails coming up on my feed of things
that Epstein had emailed people, he
seemed to be continually inviting people
to hang out with him in a way that is
quite atypical. Now maybe I'm just an
introvert, but I'm not. He he was like
aggressive in his coms to people saying,
"Come and hang out with me. I'm doing
this thing at this dinner party. Come to
my island. Are you in the area?" and he
was succeeding in getting a lot of
people to come and visit his his homes
and his island. And yeah, it's uh
>> by the way, Stephen, in the circumstance
you are in today, you might well have
heard from from Jeffrey Epstein. You
might well have had somebody who knows
you who says, "Hey, there's this guy in
New York. Loves your show. Uh just
terrific." And and all of a sudden,
you're getting that invitation. And
you're getting that invitation through
someone you know and kind of like
>> like Joe Rogan did.
>> I don't know. But like so many people.
Well, Joe Rogan said it.
>> Oh, if he's been public about it, I'm
just not going to be the one to say it,
but I I got it.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah. Joe Rogan publicly la
last week said that, and it's in the
files, that a former guest, I think it
was Lawrence Krauss of his show, invited
him to come and meet Jeffrey Epstein.
And the emails show that Jeffrey Epstein
was trying to get Lawrence to bring Joe
Rogan in. Joe Rogan said like absolutely
abs well this what Joe Rogan's said
absolutely not,
>> right?
>> And was creeped out about it and never
went and was never involved. Well, the
point I was just making is that in your
present circumstance with the, you know,
enormous audience and and the reach of
this show and and all your work, the
small videos, etc. Um, of course you're
a terrific person because now I can call
you up and say, uh, hey, will you have
this person on? Or I can say, hey, will
you be really skeptical about this topic
and will you say, I don't believe it.
And will you say, I think it's wrong or
will you say, I think it's anti-semitism
or will you will you say such and such?
And brother, you will. the the moment
where I started to, you know, really
understand the blackmail angle um was
when I started reading some of the
particular emails that Epstein had sent
to himself.
>> One in particular where he sent himself
an email regarding Bill Gates. He's
alleging that Bill Gates has slept with
He's sending himself an email.
>> Yes.
>> Alleging that Bill Gates has slept with
someone, some some Russian prostitute,
and that he got an STD, an extrammarital
affair, all of these allegations. And
when I read that email, um, then I
thought, oh, you know, he was he was a
black mailer.
>> He was definitely a black mailer and
he's collected all these rich and famous
people and he has them in his pocket
now.
>> Just to close off then on this uh point
of Epstein before we move on, you said
they they've released some of the files
and you said they hadn't released other
files. Yes. And you have implied that
was because they basically can't
>> release these other files necessarily.
>> Well, I don't I don't know what I think
more is coming. I think more will be
released, but there are certainly files,
including files even right now, even
yesterday, though there's a law. Uh, as
you may know, Congress voted for a law
to release everything unredacted. Um,
there's still a lot of redacted stuff.
So, there's more to come. And, uh, will
some be redacted? Sure. Is anybody going
to sit here like I did today and say,
"Hi, I'm the secretary of blah blah
blah, and let me just tell you what was
really going on. Uh, you know, I'm the
head of the CIA, and let me tell you
what was really going on." Not likely.
>> But Trump knows. He knows who Jeffrey
Jeffrey Epstein really was.
>> I would say all senior people in the US
government and and many many people in
general know everything that you and I
have discussed here today.
>> No secret. By the way, what do you
think? Let's imagine somebody came
forward and said this country described
as our greatest ally. I would say our
greatest ally is the UK
>> uh based on on history. But, uh, Israel
is an important ally in the Middle East
and it's a it's a democracy and it's
more of a western government. I get it.
Um, but what do you think? The the the
country comes out and somebody
officially says, "Okay, let me tell you
what was going on." Do you think the
American public can handle it?
>> I think they either way now deserve to
know the truth.
Whether they can handle it or not is
probably secondary to whether they I
think people need to know the truth.
We've I think like the problem is people
have been like partially traumatized by
all of this stuff and so now I think the
remedy is full transparency.
>> I agree and by the way uh this is close
uh because we we got a lot of
information whereas you know 5 weeks ago
or or eight weeks ago people were saying
oh there's nothing more that's it that's
all there is. I mean, this is a big step
and I think it's a big step as big a
step toward transparency as uh probably
as I've seen in my lifetime by a
government. The exception would be if
it's not a government what Elon did
after buying Twitter, the release of the
Twitter files. That was a very
impressive thing of letting three
journalists come in and just go through
everything. I think it would be awesome
if the US government ever, Governments
don't do this very often, but if they
ever said, "Okay, everybody, put on your
seat belt. I'm going to tell you exactly
what happened with the JFK assassination
or exactly what happened with the
assassination of Robert F. Kennedy,
Senator Robert F. Kennedy, when he ran
for president." There are some examples
of this in US history where it feels
like after about 25 years, we'll start
telling the truth about something. 50
years ago, Johnson and Johnson went to
uh to the FDA and they said, "Look, our
baby powder, you know, that stuff that
you put on the baby and you breathe and
the mother breathes. Well, it's got
asbestous in it and it causes cancer."
And the FDA said, "Well, thanks for
bringing this to our attention. We'll
begin to study how much asbestous is an
allowable amount." Now, they never
considered zero, which is what I'd want
on my baby or you'd want on your baby.
and they began to study and then they
studied for a while and they studied for
a while and lo and behold 40 years had
gone by and they hadn't come out with a
ruling to say there shouldn't be any
asbestous in in Johnson and Johnson baby
powder when did they come out with that
ruling by the way last year end of 2024
after 52 years. So at the beginning the
government is saying asbestous no what
are you talking about Agent Orange the
same story Agent Orange material used in
Vietnam for defoliation uh hurt people
killed people and caused birth defects
in their kids including American
soldiers lots of them the government
knew it they had tested it on 40 lab
mice and lab mice don't have a good life
generally anyway they don't have good
life expectancy but in this case 38 died
within 5 days what the government do
with that information? Oh, put that in a
top secret file and get rid of that. And
then it sits for a long, long time and
the Institute of Medicine says, "Agent
Orange hurting people. What are you
talking about?" No. And they lie and
they lie and they lie and then finally
20 25 years later, okay, yeah, sorry, we
were wrong. It does it does cause birth
defects. You see that same story with uh
breast implants, silicone breast
implants. You see that same story with
uh baby formula uh with baby food which
has arsenic in it. I don't want any
arsenic in baby food but deny deny deny
deny and we'll see it with mass
vaccination because after some years
there will be okay yes there is a good
chance that it causes myocarditis
already been admitted by the way
pericarditis uh cancer in young people
it it was a bad product sorry but they
won't do it a year away from a thing and
they obviously as we can see every day
they won't do it five years away it's
very easy to see and to locate when the
US government or any power center. This
is I'm an American. I'm all for America.
But all power centers in human history
uh lie. Knowing that they are lying does
not tell you the truth, however. Meaning
knowing that Oswald did not act alone as
a shooter from the sixth floor of the
Texas Book Depository, if he was a
shooter at all. Knowing that does not
tell you who was the shooter. So often
the best we can get in our skepticism is
to know that we are not being told the
truth. When I grew up, I felt I feel
like I was very naive to the nature of
how the world really operates. And the
more I've done podcasts and frankly, you
know, you you you get invited to
interesting things and you meet like
rich people and famous people and
billionaires. And I went to Davos this
year, which I think people think makes
me some kind of like I don't know, I
wasn't if there was if the Illuminati at
Davos, they didn't invite me into that
room. But I got to like I got to see
like really powerful people and world
leaders and all those kinds of things.
And I've sat here and interviewed so
many CIA spies and I've learned that
there are things going on out of plain
sight. So the version of reality that
the average person has as they go
through their life, how has the work
you've done over the last several
decades of your career shifted your
belief about the version of reality that
actually exists? Like how how are they
different?
>> So I I can I can answer it easily
because I was just like you. I would say
I was naive. And in fact, by the way, I
want to quickly acknowledge that I'm
probably naive today, even with what
you've heard, because there may be a
level above the level above the level
above that that I'm not seeing or I'm
choosing not to see. I can tell you the
exact evolution for me, not dissimilar
to you. I grew up in the 50s and 60s. I
believe the courts will always come up
with a fair decision. I believe that the
IRS will only collect uh money and
destroy people with good reason, and
they won't do it with bad reason. I
believed everything and the a lot of it
right up until co by the way right up
until seeing what went on with both mass
vaccination and the the mass control
through fear here's what I want to tell
you I've learned it's not that um
unusual I think I think it's easy to to
embrace which is that are human beings
the same as they were a thousand years
ago are human beings the same as they
were in Caesar's time what did Caesar do
by the way pick a a Roman emperor.
Whatever the they wanted to do,
they had sex with who and what they
wanted. 8 years old, 10 years old, boy,
girl, whatever it may be. Even in King
Farooq's time in Egypt, one of the last
kings of of Egypt, if you were a house
guest, they'd say to you, you know what?
We're going to have dinner at 6. We can
send somebody to your room. Do you want
a young boy or a young girl? No shame to
it. No problem whatsoever. The rich and
powerful people like the ones you were
describing at Davos often go from, "I
already have all the money. I've already
had all the fame. I've already had all
the influence. What do I want to do
now?" And sometimes they want to do
forbidden things. Have an affair. Keep a
girl in an apartment. These are easy,
right? Uh, cheat on my wife. These are
easy still. 14-year-old girl. Uh-oh. Not
getting so easy anymore, but I've done
all the other stuff. And that's what the
Epstein piece appeals to, which is the
forbidden. I want to be very concise in
in answering this question about what
changed uh in terms of my view, how I've
gotten, you know, started where I
started. First of all, I worked in
government, worked in the Reagan
administration. I lied. I did things
that were lies that were deceitful
several times in my career. Uh I can
give you examples in a minute if you
want, but uh you know to to make a
prosecution work. I I reached a bit uh
to get somebody some bad guy who was
trying to kill a client uh you know uh
prosecuted or or in in custody for a
longer period of time. Um I was in many
meetings where the questions were this
thing happened not how shall we tell the
public but what shall we tell the
public? How shall we spin this thing?
This is the norm in every corporate uh
boardroom in America. It's not, oh,
there's there's a cancer causing
asbestous in the baby powder. I guess we
better let everybody know. That's not
the meeting. The meeting is, let's
notify the FDA and say it's under study.
And so if we get asked, we'll get get
through this thing. Who goes to jail, by
the way, in these corporations for the
they do, opioids, etc. My god, a
100,000 people dying from heart attacks
from from a pain pill, for example. Uh
Vio for God's sake. Uh the I mean it's
it's unbelievable and nobody gets in
trouble, right? Companies are fined. Do
you know what the fines mean to these
companies? In in that new book I gave
you, Forbidden Facts, I I lay out what
all the pharma companies have been fined
criminally, what it cost them and what
they made nonetheless, right? And of
course they made the right decision
because financially they they did very
well. But I want to get to the concise
part. Look at world history as a pie
chart, right? The entire thing is
tyranny as a government method, as a
control method. Just a tiny sliver is uh
representative democracy. A little bit
starting in Greece, uh Western Europe,
the United States, tiny sliver. So our
norm, Stephen, is tyranny. That is the
norm for human beings. And what happens
to that tiny sliver that I'm describing?
That tiny sliver always moves toward
totalitarianism.
>> What does that mean? It means that the
the representative democracy we have
let's say in the UK which is pretty
stressed right now in terms of of
freedom of speech or in the United
States moves toward totalitarianism in
that it says it starts with we pass a
law and if you know the the US
constitution says if there isn't a law
prohibiting it you can do it and for
government it says if there isn't a law
allowing it you cannot do it that's the
US constitute itution. That's the US
method. Well, look what it's become. A
law gets passed and then regulators,
unelected officials, go nuts on
interpreting that law the way they want
to and applying it the way they want to.
And so the the it moves toward
totalitarianism. 40,000 new laws passed
in the United States every year. How
many rescended? Almost none.
>> So where are we now?
here in the United States where we both
asked that or in the UK where are we in
the arc of history because it kind of
does seem to move in sort of cycles
>> now the we if you're talking about where
are we now like western society or the
US empire in decline
and first of all is it an empire
obviously right we have 760
military bases overseas 760 we have a
larger budget for what we call defense
now called war since Trump has changed
the name to Department of War more
accurately. Um, we have a larger budget
than every other country in the world
combined for military spending. How many
overseas bases does China have? I think
it's one. Now, I'm not saying China's
all lovely. I'm just saying they have a
different method. They have a method
closer to what we had in the 60s, which
was to come in with with beneficial
help. We'll redo your roads, etc., etc.
So, we're an empire and we're an empire
in decline. And a moment ago when I said
that that tyranny is the normal state of
affairs for uh how people are governed.
How is it exercised? Through fear.
Always through fear. Fear is the method
that causes division. And division is
the fuel of power. Meaning you want the
population to be divided. You want the
left and the right. You want the the uh
Trumpers and the and the and the
Democrats and the forever Trumpers and
the never Trumpers. Division is the fuel
that all world leaders relish. I give
you the example in the cleanest terms.
The king and the queen look over the
castle wall and when they see their
subjects fighting, they high-five each
other because if the if they're fighting
with each other, they're not coming over
the wall. And there's always a wall. And
but if they're not fighting with each
other, that's a big problem because then
they're coming over the wall because
everybody knows in their heart, wait a
minute, these are living in
absolute luxury while I don't I can't
afford to feed my kids. They their their
motorcades and today and in those days
they're, you know, beautiful ornate uh
wagons pulled by by a bunch of horses go
by and splatter mud on me in the street.
What really is the difference? I mean,
royalty is such a scam.
>> So, what happens to the Western world if
we're in a declining empire?
>> I give you the the optimistic version
because I have a dear friend happens to
live in Cape Town who helps me with this
sometimes because like anybody when I
look a lot at uh at at what happens, I
can get discouraged. I can get cynical.
It's not a good place to live. I think
uh Tony maybe even he said it on your
show Tony Robbins which is uh you know
that what you focus on will determine uh
the quality of your life. So I can focus
on the pharma companies and all the
they're doing or I can focus on on the
beauty of of nature and spend more time
in nature and spend more time with my
kids etc. So my optimistic answer which
comes from a dear friend Nick Hudson in
in Cape Town is that even if empires
decay and and social decay is is outside
this studio. It's in London. It's in New
York. It's in Los Angeles. It's in
Seattle. It's in Portland. It's
unavoidable. Take a drive in Los
Angeles. You know it. Every freeway
on-ramp, not some. Every single one of
them has tents underneath it with people
living there. That is not good news. And
so, but here's the good news part of it.
The optimistic part of it is that
survival and thriving always prevails
and it does not rely on these systems.
Meaning, you are who you are as a in the
spiritual sense or or in the scientific
sense, whatever way you want to look at
yourself as a as a collection of energy
that doesn't need that body by the way,
right? The energy doesn't go anywhere
when that body is done. Uh meaning it's
the energy is still there. It's not
destructible. And uh so it's
indestructible. So um you are this this
being this awareness this consciousness.
And if around us when we go outside here
today all the buildings are gone and and
social decay has accelerated are we
going to be okay? And the answer is yes.
What happens now? We're living in the
forest and now I say Stephen you're
pretty good at carpentry right? Come
join us. And you say you're good at
planting sweet potatoes. We need some of
that. Let's do that. and small
populations of people begin again,
commence again, even after nuclear war,
after a variety of things. And I know
it's crazy to some people, but I take my
my hope and my optimism from that fact,
which is that it doesn't rely upon the
electricity working. It doesn't rely
upon the plumbing working and the sewage
system working. And eventually there's
enough of the earth, natural earth, for
us to do what has happened before, which
is start again. Give you a very fast
aspect of this. Thousand years ago,
there's a thousand little governments.
There's shoguns in Japan. There's
villages. There's a guy has 300 people
and he's the chief. Then it becomes what
it was in your life and my life, which
is about 190 countries. But those 190
countries are really about five power
centers, right? There's NATO, there's
there's Brexit, there's the the oil
producing countries. And eventually that
five power centers will come to two
power centers. The West, US, and China
is my prediction, but it'll be somebody
else's prediction. Can do it
differently. And then those two
are standing in a room together. And one
has to kill the other. That's the course
of history. That's how it goes. That's
how it goes in every geographical area
in history, which is we've got 30
villages and if I can find your village,
we'll take the women, we'll take the
children, and we'll kill the men. And
it's just a matter of math. How many of
there are of you and how many are there
of of our group? It's I think it's
somewhat inconceivable especially for
people of my generation to think that
the US is at all at some point going to
be at war with China because we've never
you know we never experienced a world
war but because the stakes are now so
high with nuclear weapons a war
theoretically wouldn't be like previous
wars it would be catastrophic.
>> So it's it's unimaginable. Some people
say now nuclear wars have sorry nuclear
weapons have now stopped us from getting
into World War II as easily and
therefore it won't happen.
>> Yes. Some people believe in that general
concept of mutually assured destruction
which is that neither side will will do
it. But you said it's almost impossible
for you to imagine or words to that
effect. Um uh I want to help you uh with
that imagining and it goes like this. We
are currently at war with Russia. We are
not supporting the the war in Ukraine
only. We are at war with Russia because
we are providing satellite information,
electronic warfare strategies, drone
strategies, providing targeting
information, and that is war today. That
is war. War is not just the guys on the
battlefield with rifles. That's the
low-end element. The high-end element is
supersonic missiles, which Russia has,
and the high-end element is intel and
satellite technology. and the wide
variety of things that are going on,
some of which aren't even in the news,
by the way, that go on in Russia and
they say, "Oh shit." Uh, or that go on
in Ukraine and they say, "Oh the
Russians have figured out that thing."
But the US is so far beyond other
countries in the world in terms of
technology. And so that is war with
Russia. And you could say that our war
with North Vietnam was war with China.
But now there's just no question about
it. So that was a long answer, Stephen,
to say I want to get you your
imagination closer. We're already at war
with Russia.
>> There's a phase a lot of companies hit
where they're no longer doing the most
important thing, which is selling, and
they get really bogged down with admin
and it's often something that creeps up
slowly and you don't really notice until
it's happened. Slowly, momentum starts
to leak out. This happened to us, and
our sponsor, Pipe Drive, was a fix I
came across 10 years ago, and ever since
my teams across my different companies
have continued to use it. Pipe Drive is
a simple but powerful sales CRM that
gives you the visibility on any deals in
your pipeline. It also automates a lot
of the tedious, repetitive and
timeconuming parts of the sales process
which in turn saves you so many hours
every single month which means you can
get back to selling. Making that early
decision to switch to Pipe Drive was a
real gamecher and it's kept the right
things front of mind. My favorite
feature is Pipe Drive's ability to sync
your CRM with multiple email inboxes so
your entire team can work together from
one platform. And we aren't the only
ones benefiting. Over 100,000 companies
use Piperive to grow their business. So,
if something I've said resonates, head
over to piperive.com/ceo
where you can get a 30day free trial. No
credit card or payment required.
This company that I've just invested in
is grown like crazy. I want to be the
one to tell you about it because I think
it's going to create such a huge
productivity advantage for you. Whisper
Flow is an app that you can get on your
computer and on your phone on all your
devices and it allows you to speak to
your technology. So, instead of me
writing out an email, I click one button
on my phone and I can just speak the
email into existence and it uses AI to
clean up what I was saying. And then
when I'm done, I just hit this one
button here and the whole email is
written for me. And it's saving me so
much time in a day because Whisper
learns how I write. So on WhatsApp, it
knows how I am a little bit more casual.
On email, a little bit more
professional. And also, there's this
really interesting thing they've just
done. I can create little phrases to
automatically do the work for me. I can
just say Jack's LinkedIn and it copies
Jack's LinkedIn profile for me because
it knows who Jack is in my life. This is
saving me a huge amount of time. This
company is growing like absolute crazy.
And this is why I invested in the
business and why they're now a sponsor
of this show. And Whisflow is frankly
becoming the worstkept secret in
business, productivity, and
entrepreneurship. Check it out now at
whisperflow spelled w i s p r f l o
w.ai/
Steven. It will be a game changer for
you.
Speaking of crazy weapons, I was um I
was reading about a story where you did
a a tour with the CIA and they showed
you a mechanical dragonfly.
>> Yeah.
>> With a battery. What What did they show
you?
>> Well, I've given a I've had a lot to do
with with the agency that's been that's
been public over the years. And I was
giving a talk and then afterwards they
took me on a tour to a CIA museum. They
showed me a lot of things. Oh, here's
the helmet that was worn by that pilot
who was shot down over Russia named
Powers. all kinds of interesting
memorabilia and one of them was a little
dragonfly the size of a dragonfly and it
was um mechanical and I looked at it
real closely and thought wow that that's
really fantastic it's very interesting
and he said you don't have any questions
at all I said no I mean I I get it and
he said why don't you ask me when it was
built U and I said okay when was it
built 1967
in 1967 before we had any
miniaturaturized electronics or motoriis
ization. The CIA had built that little
thing and uh and it was a a little
camera that would fly around in here as
a dragonfly and then uh and then you
know fly home and I don't know how many
pictures it held but it's an interesting
piece I want to share with you about AI
which is people wonder you know how
sophisticated is AI and and where is it
my belief is that everything we have
access to like AI we probably have
something that the US intelligence had
10 years ago. We're probably dealing
with something quite old already.
>> I'm just looking at the a picture of
this dragon.
>> Oh, I didn't even know it was public.
>> Um, this
>> that's the There he is.
>> This little thing here.
>> Yeah.
>> And you know, this was made, as you say,
what 50 years ago. So, one can only
imagine the type of technology they have
now.
>> Oh, of course.
>> I mean, they pro they don't even need to
fly a dragonfly in because we have all
these electronic devices.
>> Of course, they can they can turn on our
devices. probably your watch if it's a
an Apple watch but certainly your phone
uh and u yeah uh the we are
participating in I won't even call it an
experiment but a process that you read
1984 I'm sure and most of your audience
did I was very heartened during the
beginning of co that 1984 became the
17th bestselling book in the world in
the English language
>> telling me ah people are paying
attention they see that what they're
experiencing here has a degree of 1984
to it. I think all science fiction
stories come true. I really do. I see it
time after time. What advice would you
give to my listeners about how to
navigate in the world we're living in
today, you know, to avoid risk, threat,
you know, whether that's of our soft
tissue as you said or just with our
privacy or lives generally. Like where
does the advice start? You said you
raised 10 kids.
>> Yeah.
>> What advice are you giving to your 10
kids? Uh well they they all know that
their dad is a big proponent uh and and
my first book which is still a a very uh
big book the gift of fear that book is I
think still the bestselling book in the
world on violence after 25 years and um
that book is all about intuition and
personal responsibility. So the very
first thing I would say to your
listeners, to you to remind myself as
well is that human beings did not get
the biggest claws or the biggest teeth
or the biggest muscles. We got the
biggest brains relative to our size. And
the nuclear defense system that all
human beings have is intuition. Much
different from logic. Intuition, the
root of it, by the way, I learned when I
was writing that book, is in tear, which
means to guard and to protect. So
intuition when you think about it, oh, I
just have a feeling I should go back to
the apartment and doublech checkck such
and such. Did I leave the fire on on the
pot? And you go back and you open the
the door and you didn't leave the fire
on the pot, but something else will
always be going on that makes you glad
you came back. I believe that intuition
is always right in at least two ways.
One, it always has your best interest at
heart. It's not with you. It's
giving you real information that's
valuable. And and number two, uh it's
always based on something. And so our
journey is to figure out when I have an
intuitive feeling like do this show with
you, who knows why, but when I have that
intuitive feeling, and by the way, I
don't do most shows. I don't know what
the reason is. I don't know what it'll
be. I mean, I can make up one with
logic, right? I like that guy. I learned
a lot from his shows. I can create a
case. I can make a case for anything.
But if it's just based on what I feel
and everything you've succeeded at and
accomplished was based on what you felt.
It was based on intuition. In America,
in the West, we think we're doing it by
logic, right? I do a big PowerPoint
presentation and I say to the board,
"Here's the reason. Here's why, and
here's the percentages." And they say,
"Oh, good." The board at corporations in
America would actually prefer that I use
logic even if I'm wrong instead of using
intuition even if I'm right. So when I
say to you, no, I just think it's the
right thing to do. I I think it'd be
smart. I think it'll be it'll really
work out like something like Amazon
Prime that people opposed and then it's
like 175 million people just in America
are using it. Big success. Intuitive
process, not a not a logic process.
Logic is weak and plotting. Logic does A
B C D. Intuition does A to Z instantly.
And you don't know why. It's knowing
without knowing why. I don't feel good
about that person. I'm I'm gonna back I
I said I was going to make this business
deal. I'm backing out of it. I said I
was going to show up to that thing. I'm
calling and cancelling. And by the way,
cancelling one of my favorite things. I
recommend it to everybody. I recommend
cancelling and postponing to everybody I
know. You are not obligated to keep your
plans. You made a plan 3 months ago and
you don't know who you'll even be or if
you or them or anybody will even be
alive 3 months from now. There's nothing
wrong with cancelling. Now I don't do it
rudely by the way but just to finish on
you know sort of what your listen your
your viewers uh and listeners can do is
that is to really fall in love with
intuition and to learn the way you
communicate with yourself. The there's
signals from intuition. Curiosity you
just wonder something. Suspicion
worry can even be a signal of intuition.
Um but the biggest one is true fear.
When you feel true fearh I don't want to
do this. I wanted to ask you a question
about this. I met with Magnus Carlson
who is the arguably the best chess
player in the world. And I met with him
after spending some time in Cape Town
writing about gut instinct and
intuition, all these kinds of things.
And one of the things that I learned
through my writing was that in in many
cases when someone has really
well-trained intuition, their first
thought is the right thought. And
actually, if you give them longer to
think about the problem, they make a
worse decision. So when I met Magnus
Carlson as a as the number one chess
player in the world backstage, we were
both on stage together. I said to him, I
said, "Listen, I got a question to ask
you. Do you basically now just run off
intuition or do you think?" And he said,
"My first thought is nearly always
right." So actually, I spend the other
time just confirming the first sort of
intuition that I had. And actually, I
was telling him about a dodgeball game
where they got dodgeball players,
professional dodgeball players, to look
at a frozen image of a dodgeball game
and said, "Where would you throw the
ball?"
>> And when they gave them little time to
decide, they made a better decision.
When they just went with their first gut
instinct, they made a better decision.
They unfroze it and it was the right
throw. If they gave them longer,
>> they made the worst decision. And the
the sort of caveat and I guess the
question for you is it appeared to me
that you almost have to train the
intuition. Like areas in our life where
we've got multiple reps and pattern
recognition, our intuition is valuable.
But then in other areas of our life
where we haven't trained the muscle yet,
we can make bad decisions. One such
example would just be like the first
time you start hiring people.
>> You don't have a trained intuition yet.
So you go, "Yeah, she seems nice." But
then you get I'm probably been hiring
thousands of people for 15 years now and
I get you know I get an intuition. So do
you have to train your intuition?
>> Well I think it happens automatically as
you as you live life that new
distinctions are added. Um but I also
believe that uh it is a natural
resource. I could think of it in a
spiritual sense. It's very hard to
figure out why we feel a certain way and
we do what what Magnus said which is we
get our answer and then we backtrack and
see if it fits. Right. I think the
training that's necessary, Stephen, is
not the training to uh improve your
intuition. Uh but rather the training to
listen to it and to not interrogate it
and to not prosecute it. Because I'll
give you an example. A woman is working
late at night in a in an office building
like this. She's on the 10th floor.
She's leaving. She pushes the button for
the elevator. The elevator door opens
up. Inside the elevator is a man who
causes her fear. She doesn't like it for
whatever reason. Obviously, she has no
opportunity yet to assess all the
issues. What's he dressed like? What's
he look like? What did I hear 3 weeks
ago about a guy who wore a blue cap and
t-shirt and she doesn't have any time
for her first reaction was like that.
What does she do? Most women, they get
into a steel soundproof chamber
with someone they're afraid of. And
there's not another animal in nature
that will do it. Now, why does she do
it? Because the thought comes, oh, I
don't want him to think I'm a racist
because he's Hispanic or I don't want to
be that kind of person or I don't want
this reality to be true, so I'm going to
act like it's not true. Right? And what
I say is let the door close in his face.
No problem. If you've got the signal, uh
that's a lowcost decision. Wait for the
next elevator. Right? That's a very
lowcost issue. Now, there are so many
examples of this in my work where I
interviewed people who had been
victimized. And time after time, they
would tell me, I knew when I walked into
that underground parking lot that that
was the same car that I'd seen earlier.
I knew when I met that guy such and
such. In fact, there's a beautiful a
woman who wrote me the most beautiful
thing. I I think it's in in Gift of Fear
or or it's in one of the subsequent
books. And she said that she would look
at her lifelong diary. She'd kept a
lifelong diary and she looked back at it
and it would say met this guy um feel a
little queasy about him, not so sure,
dated him,
married him. And then she what she wrote
to me was she said again and again I
could see there it was in my diary
listen to this the ending embedded in
the beginning and so what I encourage
people to do going to your original
answer is how people can be safer is
listen to their intuition know that its
function is to protect you that's what
it's doing when I was reading about your
work on intuition and your perspective
on it I it got me thinking about people
in my life that I
>> have to get rid of tomorrow
Well, actually that I have you know that
little alarm bell in your head when you
have you have a little alarm bell
intuition like I don't know what the
answer is but I feel like something
isn't right
>> and that little alarm bell in my head
I'm like so what do I do about that? And
I think there was one particular example
I was thinking of where I was getting
this little vibe from someone that
something was just off. And then 3
months later, we were at this event and
they started opening up about their
childhood.
And in the course of opening up about
their childhood, I learned something
about their mother and something their
mother used to do to them.
>> And they were talking to someone else
about this behavior that it's created in
them. M
>> it suddenly all made sense. That thing
that was giving me was making me feel
like the vibe was off. I think now is
because of something from their
childhood that I didn't actually know
which meant they have this behavior
which will make you feel a little bit
uncomfortable.
>> And in that moment and with I was
thinking about this example before you
arrived cuz I was like in that case my
my intuition told me something but I
didn't know what it was telling me. I
imagine a lot of people have that. They
have a vibe of someone something's not
quite right and they're interpreting it
to mean X when it could be Y.
>> Yes. Sometimes there's a very nice like
in my life and I suspect in yours too,
there's often a very straight line
between certain childhood experiences
and what we ultimately do. In my case, a
very easy one is there was fear. I then
come to have a deep understanding of
fear, both sides of it. uh and and and
some compassion for it and some uh uh
insight and I I then study it. There was
violence uh in my childhood. And so I
now come now it's so long ago that I'm
71. So my childhood is so long ago now
that it doesn't have a a grip on my
throat like it did for a lot of my life
where the narrative was very very
important to me and the narrative of my
childhood was important. Go ahead. You
can ask question. I was going to
probably give people the context on your
childhood.
>> Oh, uh, you or me. I'll do it. Okay,
good. Yeah, my childhood. Damn it. I'll
I'll tell them. Uh, so yeah, a very, you
know, very difficult time. My mother was
a heroin addict. Uh, she was, uh, quite
violent. She was very troubled. She
committed suicide when she was, uh, 39
years old and I was 16. And that was a a
kind of failure for me because I
considered it my job to to get us all
through this drama alive. Um, she shot
my stepfather in front of me. Uh, a lot
of in that house that we lived in, I
think there I I saw the house a few
months ago, by the way. I think there
are nine bullets in the walls and floor
of that house uh that I can account for,
probably still there. And so, while I'm
describing this to you dispassionately,
uh, it's because of two things. The
distance in terms of time, but most of
all because of healing. And the the I
want to give you my definition of
healing in this context. My definition
of healing for all of us is when we stop
using any of our energy to manage the
past. And this gives us all of our
energy in the present moment. And so
what do I mean using energy to manage
the past? Well, if I'm keeping that
story going and I'm saying to my wife,
well, because my mama did this, this is
why I feel such and such. which I went
through times in my life when when those
things were much closer to me. Today, I
feel like I'm not using any of my energy
to manage the past. The the narrative I
told you this whole series of of dramas
happened. And anytime you hear about a
parent or or anybody in somebody's life
committing suicide, we often think, "Oh,
what a terrible experience that must
have been." What you really ought to
think when you hear about somebody
committing suicide is, "Oh, what a
series of terrible experiences there
must have been leading up to that." And
I want to tell you real quickly that I
had a a couple of dreams that my mother
was in that were particularly powerful.
And I offered this to the audience to
know that dream experiences are
sometimes all you're going to get.
Right? Because my mother died when I was
16. So I don't have an opportunity to
sit across the table with her and say,
"What were you thinking when you such
and such and what was going on in your
life when such and such?" And and but in
a dream, she came to me once and I asked
her, "Why were you so cruel to me?" And
she was totally perplexed and she said
to me, "Cruel to you, I was preparing
you for this extraordinary life."
And I think that's true.
I think that's what happened is that for
you, whatever your experience was, for
Tony Robbins, who we talked about
earlier, what his experience was, it
took those experiences. You take away
those experiences and you don't have
someone who grows up wanting nothing
more than to write these books for free
and sell them for free and get them
published for free like Forbidden Facts,
the current book, in order to help
people deal with these issues of
skepticism, of fear, etc. You don't get
somebody doing what I do. Uh where my
ambition is long gone. My ambition for
more more anything, more money, more
houses. Well, houses I might still slip
on, but now it's about service to other
people. Wasn't always, but it was
service to other people because I
believe that public life, it includes
you. If all you do is give me a bad
example, that's service. If you give me
a good example, that's a prettier form
of service. It's a maybe it's a nicer
job you got, but ultimately all of it is
service. Everything that we can observe
in of people in public life and people
in our private lives. It's all service.
You know, I remember a friend of mine
telling me he went back home for
Thanksgiving and he saw his whole family
and he said he learned to only stay for
one day. He said because all the
happened on the second day with his
family if he stayed for two days. And he
also learned to stay in a hotel. I said,
"Are you staying at home?" He said, "Oh,
No, never never stay at home.
Because here was this group of people.
But what he told me that was interesting
is he said, "Ah, Aunt Charlene, you
taught me to speak more quietly because
you talk so loud." And he says,
"Uncle Carlo, you you taught me to be
more gentle because, man, you're rough
in everything you do. Throw the glasses
around and the way you engage. Dad, you
taught me to listen to people because
you never listen to a thing I
said even today. Isn't it a beautiful
way of looking at it? Basically, these
were the teachers in in our lives. For
my mother, 100% uh the I'm I'm so far
past forgiveness and so far into
gratitude for the pieces that were
wonderful. And by the way, this is a
suffering person, right? This is a
person that, you know, that charities
are for and and social welfare is for.
Uh, you know, a woman with three kids
and no job and a heroin addict for God's
sake. That's not an easy job. Uh, and
and other drugs too, by the way, which
helped me as I grew up to be skeptical
of pharma
because some of the pills she took, one
of them called Doradin, has now been
taken off the market for causing what?
Psychosis,
which explains a lot of her craziness.
And so all of this this, you know,
teaching that it depends what you do
with it. Meaning you we all we all
nobody gets out of here alive, right?
Everybody's got a story to tell. And I
remember a case where I overvalued my
own ability to predict human behavior,
which I say, you know, I say in these
books, you can predict human behavior,
right? To to drive here today in
traffic, I had to predict the behavior
of thousands of people based on just the
little movements of the big metal
objects around them. You know that guy
who starts to move over into your lane
and then he catches himself and goes.
You never trust that guy. You always
want to get way behind him or way in
front of him. So, we're predicting human
behavior all the time. But I overvalued
mine. I thought, "Oh, I'm Mr. Genius
predicting human behavior because I
developed these systems of artificial
intuition that predict human behavior."
And I was at a meeting and there were a
group of people at the meeting and it
was going to start in about 5 minutes.
And a few people were comforting one
woman who was really sobbing at the end
of the table. And I thought to myself
judgmentally, um, why'd she even come to
the meeting? I mean, if she can't do the
meeting, like, what's she doing here?
And I knew it was a boyfriend issue,
right? That's what she's crying about
and they're comforting her. The meeting
begins and that woman speaks first and
she says through her tears, "I'm sorry
you guys. Uh, I'll do my best at the
meeting, but as many of you know, my
husband killed my 12-year-old son 4 days
ago."
So my little journey into judgmental
prediction was about as wrong as you
could be and it was a uh a humbling
experience for me because I would have
discounted that person in a moment.
That's the other side of of prediction
and intuition, right? You can discount
people uh and quickly toss them away.
And so you know when you get this
intuitive signal, do we have a
responsibility to understand it? Yeah,
we have a responsibility to understand
it. How many people have I met who I
thought what an that guy is. I
don't ever want to talk to that guy
again. And I didn't. My loss. Sometimes
it was would have been the greatest
person in the world. Uh sometimes it
would have been a great relationship.
And now I apply the the George Harrison
rule. George Harrison the Beatles which
writes this who writes this unbelievable
lyric that's in While My Guitar Gently
Weeps, which is I look at you all and
see the love there that's sleeping.
We have a brain budget. The way to think
about it is we have a limited amount of
energy that we can spend every single
day. I'm saying find ways to simplify
your life. And one way I've conserved my
body budget is via our sponsor Factor
who are a meal delivery service. They
are especially great because they make
fresh meals and they cater to so many
different diets. High protein, keto,
vegan, vegetarian, low carb,
gluten-free, paleo diets, you name it.
Every meal is designed by a dietitian,
made by chefs, and delivered right to
me. Fresh and never frozen. So, if
you're ready to streamline your food
intake, visit factormeals.com/diary50
off. And use my code diary50 off to get
50% off your first Factor box plus free
breakfast for 1 year. And this offer is
only valid for new Factor customers with
code and qualifying auto review
subscription purchase.
If there's anything we need, it is
connection. Especially in the world
we're living in today. And that is
exactly why we created these
conversation cards. Because on this
show, when I sit here with my guest and
have those deep, intimate conversations,
this remarkable thing happens time and
time again. We feel deeply connected to
each other. At the end of every episode,
the guest I'm interviewing leaves a
question for the next guest, and we've
turned them into these conversation
cards. And we've added these twist cards
to make your conversations even more
interesting. And there are so many more
twists along the way with the
conversation cards. This is the brand
new edition. And for the first time
ever, I've added to the pack this gold
card, which is an exclusive question
from me. But I'm only putting the gold
cards in the first run of conversation
cards. So get yours now before the
limited edition gold cards are all gone.
Head to the link in the description
below. Through your work, you've um been
behind the scenes with some of the most
interesting people on planet Earth, most
successful, richest, most powerful
people on planet Earth. And you get to
see therefore both sides of the fence in
a way that most people would never see.
You get to see how they are in the
public life and then you get to see them
in their private life and often times
you'll get to see them
>> during some of the hardest moments of
their life.
>> Most of the time. Yeah.
>> What have you learned from that
exposure?
>> Well, probably a lot. So the I I'll but
I'll give a a uh what what answer comes
to me intuitively. When I was a kid and
I used to watch television, I believed
when I was a kid that the television was
more real than our lives and I learned
obviously through my experience that the
exact opposite was true, right? The
media world was unreal and our lives
were real. And this Stephen is
incredibly important today because with
AI and social media and other things, we
actually are challenged to know what is
real and what is not real. Did Trump
really make that speech or is it an AI
film? Did did that really happen or is
is that real what I'm looking at? The
cat really did that or is that an AI
film? And we are challenged now to
understand and choose I would say what's
real and what's not real.
That challenge has beauty in it because
it's making for me it's making me
question
reality itself. In other words, um I'm
questioning what really matters to me
and what will I call real? And I'll give
you some examples. I'll call touch real.
Hug you. Shake your hand. I'll call that
real. Nature. Time in a park. Time with
animals. my time with cats and dogs.
Unbelievably important to me because I
trust those right? I believe
that cat means business. This is what
it's doing. If it wants to be on my
chest purring, it wants to be on my
chest purring. And if it doesn't, she's
out of there, right?
>> CIA cat.
>> And so, and and children are the same
thing. I remember my son's meeting a
famous client of mine who, let's say, is
was the richest man in the world, etc.
at that moment. and uh and my son at 3
years old, how much money do you have?
Um but it held no offense because it's
this little kid. All it can be is real.
There's nothing but real in in a little
kid. And so where I think optimistically
about AI, which definitely has some
problems for for for the human race for
sure. But where I think optimistically
about it is I think it's good for people
to question reality because what
ultimately is it? What is it? If this is
a simulation, like Elon makes a good
argument for, and I think he leans in
that direction, by the way, and
sometimes I I do too with him. If it's a
simulation, uh, then we want to make it
interesting and and we want to be a bit
outside. In in a simulation, we're not
vulnerable, right? The the the spirit,
the soul, the energy that animates us um
will continue. It's not going anywhere.
And it lets us witness this experience
rather than feel victim to it, right? we
get to this is a good movie and we
wouldn't go see a movie if we knew the
outcome, right? But we but this movie is
really good. And so when I look at AI
things and trust me, I don't know about
you, you're younger, so you're you may
have better instincts or intuitions for
it, but I genuinely can't tell
sometimes. I mean, I send something back
to a friend of mine and say, I think
that's I don't think the dog
actually jumped up on the top shelf and
did that such and such. I I don't buy
it. And then you look at it a few more
times. But this is good for us because
what it brings us to is whatever we
think is real. Touch, taste, uh uh the
feelings, tears, nature, whatever we
think it is, I believe that's where I
want to be. That's where I want to spend
my time.
>> So there's this theory called the dead
internet theory where they think that
because of AI and us being able to make
I sent actually sent a video to some of
my team members earlier. It's a two and
a half minute video and it's made with
one of these AI tools and it it's the
ending of a very famous movie and
someone's just changed it and they it's
a kid in their bedroom has made a new
ending to the movie. couple of prompts,
they've got a new ending to the movie.
And I I was playing this forward,
playing this forward and forward and
forward. And eventually you get to a
point where bots will be just spraying
content at the internet. And in such a
world, unless we have these sort of um
retina scanners to confirm that I'm
doing the post live, you get to this
dead internet theory where like
everything you see is either written by
produced by AI. Therefore, wait. Our
level of skepticism just raises to the
point that we don't trust anything we're
seeing. You're saying that that's
actually a good thing for us because it
makes us question what we're seeing
again and revert to real things that are
irreplaceably human.
>> Yes. I think it's good to I think it's
it's spiritually good for us to redefine
reality as opposed to take me back 20
years in my life and possibly yours.
What did I believe? everything the
government said, every official
narrative. Why wouldn't I believe it?
>> Do you think there's any downside to our
lost interest in institutions?
>> Well, I have such a negative view of big
centralized
institutions.
>> Why? Because I think what happens when
you a a very good number of people to
live together is about 300. And what I
base that on is uh Fiji where I live a
lot, villages are about 300 people.
There's a chief who lives with them. He
doesn't get special treatment. He's not
carried around in a gold chariot. He's
got to eat the same food they do. And he
is generally uh benevolent. And uh
because the the beauty of the Fijian
village, and I encourage you you to go
and all your your viewers to go. Don't
all go on the same day because you'll
up Fiji, but go anyway. Um the the
beauty of the Fijian village is that
people will be born
and grow up and get married and have
children and die all in the same house
and all with the same people. That's
fantastic because what they don't get
that I get in my life and you get is the
engagement with all these anonymous
people that don't matter. Right? The
waiter is just a snapshot to me, not a
real person I'm sitting down with. I
like to, by the way, really engage with
people uh at the expense of of the
friends I'm with very often. I'm really
curious about people. The Uber driver,
I'm I'm curious, but I know that the
this is a temporary relationship in the
Fijian village. Uh it's not a temporary
relationship. I'll give you a good
example on an airplane. You're on a
commercial flight somewhere and you've
got a 10-hour flight to overseas to
London or something and there's a baby
crying and uh you're pissed that the
baby's crying. Some people are. I mean,
I I look at this when we used to travel,
my wife and I, and I remember somebody
saying when we boarded with my maybe
20-month-old son, "Is that baby going to
cry?" And I said to the woman, "What do
you think? It's a it's a 20-month old
baby." But the point is, hey folks,
we're together for the next 10 hours.
How do we want to spend this time? We
want to spend it hating each other. We
want to get too drunk and bug the person
next to you. How do we want to do this?
A Fijian village is like that. In fact,
a Fijian village is fewer bathrooms than
a 747 and fewer seats than a 747. Fewer
people for God's sake, what we get on an
airplane every day. And so I believe in
small populations uh for governance. And
I believe in subsidiarity, a word you
probably don't know. I only learned it
about a year ago from a dear friend in
Cape Town. Subsidiarity means government
at the most local possible level. So, if
it's a if it's a an issue regarding
building permit, that ought to be city
or county, nothing to do with Washington
DC. If it's an issue regarding
interstate commerce, okay, maybe we need
a little Washington DC. We need a little
state involved. But government at the lo
most local possible level so that I can
come over to your house, Stephen, and
say, "Why did you not approve my my
building permit?" Or so I can meet you
in the restaurant where we see each
other every morning, where our kids go
to school together. I don't believe
centralized government works. And I
think further that centralized
government is our enemy. It is the enemy
of of citizens.
>> I was thinking about the parallels there
actually for business.
>> They get too big.
>> Yeah, they get too big. And a lot of
great companies actually break break up
divisions and departments and give them
autonomy and subsidiar. Can't even say
it.
>> Subsidiary. It wasn't easy for me
either.
>> I nailed it first time. What you're
talking about subsidiary. Subsidiarity.
Bing bing.
>> Subsidiarity. Yeah.
>> And how even in as our company grows,
maybe I should think more about
subsidiarity. Well, I'll tell you, my
company at its biggest was about a
thousand people and 26 offices around
the country, around the world, and I
didn't like a thousand people as a
number. I liked where we are now, which
is about 600 people and uh and we're
hiring, by the way, so look us up and
and come to work. We need we need young
people uh who are physically fit and
have good backgrounds, uh meaning they
can pass screening. But my point is that
I I like to stay in that sweet spot of a
thousand people starts to get too far
from the individuals. And when it's
small, and I don't know where you are
now in in this in in this podcast
organization, but you can walk down the
hall and see an employee and say, "Hey,
it seems like you're you're not doing so
well. You seem you don't like to joke
anymore. You seem humorless. You seem
such and such." In a big organization
while I developed a method for that by
the way I'll tell you in a second but in
a big organization you get farther and
farther and farther from the human
beings. I want to tell you the method we
developed. We have a thing called care.
It stands for continuous asking
responding and evaluation.
Every day every employee in my company
when they log into work gets a question
that they answer and I get the
statistical results of that every day.
And the questions will be things like uh
when do you think you're getting your
next promotion?
Uh or um have you experienced or
witnessed sexual harassment? Have you
experienced or witnessed discrimination?
Why do I do that? Because I want to
know, right? That's why you ask. Have
you in bigger companies that use our
system like Amazon did developed a
system like it that you know you might
ask a question like have you ever seen a
firearm in the workplace? An
unauthorized firearm. Oh, damn it. We
want to know that information, right?
Does your supervisor know your name?
Huge question because a supervisor
knowing that question is asked knows
everybody's name which is what you want.
You're influencing middle management
behavior. But that system we have care
is no different than me walking down the
hall and say, "Hey, Stephen, I noticed
for the last couple of days you're
keeping your office door closed and you
kind of shut down for some reason.
What's going on?" You lose that when it
gets too big. And when it gets really
too big, like think about government
agencies like HHS, the biggest budget in
world history, $1.7 trillion, bigger
than the Pentagon, started out at 85,000
employees. Luckily, it's down now. You
You got to be kidding. You're running a
a machine. It has nothing to do with
humanity. And and government agencies
have nothing to do with humanity. They
have to do with process, bureaucracy.
>> We talked about advice. That's kind of
where we started on this uh train of
thought that you would give to your
children and one of the you know trains
we went down was about intuition.
>> Yes.
>> Is there anything else that you think
was would you know if you if you if this
god forbid was your last day on earth
and your children said to you, "Dad,
what do I need to know to live a
fulfilling life?"
>> Yes.
>> Based in the world as we see it today,
what would you what would you say if you
could only say one thing? for me and I
think it's true for everybody um
contribution to others is a key part of
coming to believe that you belong here.
Those of us who had a tough time and but
remember I said everybody has a tough
time in some way through childhood
selflove is often uh missing or is hard
to come by and to believe that you
belong here contribution to others is a
key thing. The second one you asked for
one but you're getting two. It's a it's
a special today a bargain. The second
one was the hardest lesson for me to
come to believe and that was that what
is right for you is always right for the
other person.
Very hard for me to get my head around
this one because I thought, well, wait a
minute. I want to break up with this
girl who wants to get married and have
kids with me. How can my breaking up be
right for the other person? Well, a she
gets to be with somebody who actually
wants to be with her. she gets to begin
her life now instead of I stay with her
till she's 45 and she can't have kids
anymore. So this idea that what's right
for you is always right for the other
person. The practical application is
that all you need to do, Stephen, is
know what's right for you,
>> which is easier said than done.
>> It is easier said than done, but because
in my case, what I would do is say,
well, what how's this person going to
do? When I was younger, I believed
everybody that I fired, for example,
which was very few people in my career.
I mean, employed a shitload of people,
but I didn't fire very often. Everybody
that I fired, I thought they went from
working at this great company that I was
the founder of to being on the street
homeless and couldn't feed their
families. That's not what happened. They
went to other great jobs. If they could
work for GDBA, they had already jumped
through so many hoops. They were
presentable. They were intelligent. They
were physically fit. They had a a great
background. They had integrity that we
could see. They had all variety of of
things. And they presented incredibly
well because we've got one hell of a
screening process. We have a 9-day
nine-day interview, not a 1-hour
interview. They live they come and live
at our camp for 9 days of an interview
process. They're sleeping in our
environment. We're really getting to
know them. By the way, it's 12 days now,
but started as 9 days. So now I know if
I fire somebody or if they leave, uh,
they're going to do fantastic. That that
was a big awakening for me. But this
idea that what's right for me is always
right for the other person, what does it
do? It frees you to know that the only
place I have to go to get the answer to
this question is in here. You don't want
me messing around in your brain trying
to figure out what you want, trying to
figure out what you believe, trying to
figure out what's best for you. I've
hurt more people in my life, trying to
figure out what's best for them than
I've helped.
>> It is um it is remarkably true. I was
just sort of senseing it against people
where in one particular case where I had
fired someone and they were very upset
about it many many many years ago in a
previous business very upset about it
protested you know said some things uh
to me and then years later five six 10
years later when I reflect on where they
are now and if that was the best thing
for them as I kind of assumed it was to
be honest they would say it was the best
thing for them I would say it was the
best thing for them in hindsight in part
because
>> when held in a situation that's not
right for them. They're going to suffer
in other ways.
>> Yeah.
>> Under the under a standard,
>> including your resentment.
>> My resentment, a standard they can't
meet, goals they can't meet, the
pressure from everybody, the stress when
they can't see their job, of course.
>> And yeah, and let them go and they
started their own thing. And um less
pressure, lower goals, less expectation.
They seem to be much much happier.
>> And you Oh, much happier.
>> And you Yeah. That's the Look, God only
made you or the universe, whichever word
you want to fit in there, only made you
responsible for one person. truly
responsible for one person and and
that's you and then that has of course
all the ripple effects of what it does
for the rest of the world even our
children by the way are we responsible
for them certainly not for life right
because in my case I'm an older father
my first birth kid I had a bunch of
adopted kids a bunch I had eight but my
first uh birth kid uh I was 52 years old
and so I'm an older father to my
17-year-old son uh I don't expect to be
around when he's
Um, I'll take it if it happens to be
that way. But I would be def
crepit by that point. Uh, and I I'd
rather probably exit before that. But my
point is the idea that even our
children, we will not find the answer.
Do I know what's best for my kids? Of
course not. I have a lot of opinions,
but uh, you know, do I really know
what's best? No. But I know what's best
for me. And and that's really where my
responsibility has to end. And Stephen,
you asked me to boil it down to one. I
gave you a special today of two. And uh
and I want to give you uh the third one
that you haven't asked for. And it's
this. Everything you want is downstream.
Everything you want is downstream.
Meaning that time when we're swimming
against the current and think, oh, if
it's important, it's going to take all
this work, etc., etc. There is no
swimming upstream. What? Downstream
always wins. Reality always wins. You
know, when you swim upstream, you put
enough current there and you're staying
in the same place. And so, the times in
my life when I thought it must be this
way. It has to be this. This there's a
this is the only way. I was wrong. I was
wrong. Including hiring a dear friend of
mine told me the story of hiring a CEO
for his company, big company, and and
the guy said, "I'll take the job." And
they negotiated everything. And then the
guy said, "You know, I'm going to go to
work for for Pepsi Cola, and I'm sorry."
And my friend got on an airplane and
flew to the hotel and waited in the
lobby. the of the hotel where he knew
the guy was, caught him in the lobby and
said, "Don't go to work for them. Go to
work for me. I'll change the offer in
the following way. I'll add this
equity." And he succeeded and he got the
CEO he wanted. And three weeks later had
to fire the
So basically, when the whole universe
says no, everything you want is
downstream. Now, you probably have some,
you tell me, do you have some resistance
to that idea? Um, I would say
I can think of examples where I fought
for something and it was I fought for a
person or something and it turned out to
be a good decision. Should I give you
the context?
>> Yeah, I'd love to hear the context. But
by the way, that doesn't defeat my
argument because fighting for something
is not the same as swimming upstream.
You know, swimming upstream is you know
which way this river is going.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, that makes sense then.
>> Yeah. And so the the you ask what I
would tell my kids is that everything
you want is downstream. It kind of you
know I've been so blessed or lucky
whatever word you want to use or
fortunate in my life that my work you've
got all these books as examples. I loved
doing it. It wasn't work. I love
sometimes it's hard but hard is not the
same as like feeling like I'm just
stamping something out in this factory
which would be a kind of hell for me I
guess. Uh, I loved I I was doing what I
was on the planet to do. I think
everybody isn't that lucky.
>> The example I was going to give you
actually support
>> the story. Yes. Go ahead.
>> Me and my me and my then girlfriend were
dating for a year. We had an issue. I've
been very open about this and the
newspapers write about it and stuff, but
we had an issue with our intimate life
and we couldn't really see a way around
it. Broke up.
She flew to Bali because we couldn't see
a way to solve the problem. And then I
carried on with my life and a year goes
past and I'm thinking constantly, I'm
thinking, do you know what? I think
actually that was the right person.
>> I think I up. I think I should
have maybe in my immaturity I like
should have found a way to work through
this problem. So I fly across the world
to Bali for 18 hours and I go there to
apologize to her for not handling the
situation better in a more mature way. I
I apologize. I think there is part of me
that's trying to get her back. actually
while we're there she does tell me that
in the time we've been apart she's been
with someone else and I take it all very
very well I'm very mature and then while
we're there I know she's not trying
she's not trying to like sit next to me
so when we go for dinner with our
friends she's like sitting two seats
down she's like there's no interest in
me anymore
>> so I accept it and I tell her I'm going
home in in 2 days time thank you so much
for spending time I send her this nice
text message and then in those in the 48
hours before my flight
it's like we fell in love with each
other again. So, it supports your point
because when I apologized, I came with
no agenda and then I said, "I'm
leaving."
>> In the 48 hours from the point where I
said, "I'm off now." Sent her a nice
message. It's like we fell in love
again. She's now my fianceé
>> and that's what I don't know. It's been
seven years or something. But it
actually goes to show what you said. Now
I thought it through cuz I thought
flying was me fighting for something
because of the example you gave, but
actually
>> it was I apologized and I'd given up. I
like stopped fighting.
>> That's the best when you when you let it
go. And suddenly and suddenly it
happens. Yes, it does fit. Everything
you want is downstream. In fact, that
that's not, you know, even getting on a
plane is downstream.
>> You didn't get on a plane that flies
backwards or has no engines. That's what
I'm talking about is when you find
yourself, and I certainly have in my
life, find myself doing something that
is so difficult to do uh and and so
unrewarding and it feels like I'm trying
to swim upstream, which I can tell you
from experience in lots of rivers, some
of them in Fiji, it doesn't work. You
you don't get a lot of mileage swimming
upstream.
>> I was just going to ask cuz you know,
this this was such a smash hit
bestselling book.
>> Yeah.
>> Nationally. And I was just going to ask
you the question,
>> why? What is it that resonated with
people that made this book so
successful? The gift of fear, survival
signals that protect us from violence.
What What is it?
>> That's a very good question. I mean, a
good question in that it's in that it's
a new question. I'll give you what I
what I hope. I think if that book had
been about Chinese pottery uh or about
spices or any subject carpentry um it
also would have worked well because it
had by a number of blessings it had some
core truths in it like you didn't one of
the things I'm saying to them is forget
about experts you you don't need an
expert to be telling you things that are
in your own body if this story is
resonant to you if this experience from
all these people that I interviewed is
resonant to you and if that works for
then uh you know you'll find value here
and uh there are some practical reasons
why it was a bestseller like Oprah doing
it. I mean everybody did it. Time
magazine, Newsweek, everybody did big
things on the book. Why at that moment
did that work out? I I have a theory
which is that a a lot of people in media
knew me or knew of me but I never had
done anything public and it it took a
lot of courage to do and when I for me I
talk about things that were very
personal in that book and uh and in the
other books as well and it took a lot of
courage in fact I went and met with two
authors beforehand who had told really
hard stories about their lives and uh I
didn't know them I just asked for
meetings one of them was in DC and uh
and and I got some encouragement. I also
remember, by the way, meeting with a
group of of law enforcement officials
who were at my company for some reason,
and I told them a couple of stories from
that book, uh childhood stories, and
they were kind of a gasast. Everybody
was like, "Oh, it didn't stimulate any
conversation at the table." I knew I was
in a kind of territory that most people
run away from. And that too helped me uh
because I thought uh denial, denial,
denial, denial, denial all around the
table because every cop and every FBI
agent has a story about why they are
doing what they're doing just like every
doctor does, just like everybody does.
There's a reason that they're doing what
they're doing that usually will be
discoverable in uh in childhood. And
when they discover it, like who do you
want for example for a heart surgeon? Do
you want the heart surgeon whose
grandfather died of a heart attack in
his arms when he was 14 years old? Or do
you want the one who said heart surgery?
Oh, the earnings look really good on
heart surgery. I'll take heart surgery
as my major. Uh you know, you want the
one with a with a core uh with a with a
story uh a personal story.
>> We have a closing tradition where the
last guest leaves a question for the
next. And the question left for you, not
knowing who they were leaving it for, is
where do you think the origin of your
purpose and meaning comes from
objectively?
>> Okay, give me 25 minutes of silence.
This is I guess it's somewhat of a
spiritual
answer uh which is that I believe in I I
tend to go with everything is
predetermined
meaning down to the smallest tree in the
smallest town in the smallest place uh
it's going to be that's how it was going
to be. Now, I have a scientific version
of this, which is that if you're I
remember one day I was in Fiji and I was
swimming in front of my house and the
the water's just 4t deep in front of my
house because it's on a reef so you can
walk on it and then you get to the end
of the reef, you get to the deep water
and I was standing in the in the 4ft
deep water and suddenly a massive
rainstorm came just like theop bop, you
know, hitting you in the head and then
it stopped immediately and immediately
after that this massive school of fish
about this big just started jumping out
of the water in front of me and it's
noisy. IT'S LIKE
as they were going around and they go in
a whole circle around me and then
they're and then they're gone. And
immediately after this the tide which
was rising, it goes up and down as you
know twice a day. Um the tide really got
strong where I was standing and it was
coming in as opposed to going out. And
so I was really like standing there like
this and I was looking around and I
thought, "This better be enough
stimulation for you, brother. Like I'd
just seen the giant rainstorm and then
the sun, the fish going nuts and then
this giant tide thing." And as soon as I
thought that, a whale breached right off
the reef, right? And uh and I and I
thought, "Holy man. You are seeing
one hell of a movie here." And then I
thought, in fact, I dreamed that night
that I was uh as if somebody had typed
in, "Show me what it would be like to be
standing on a reef in Fiji." Uh there
was no AI then, but to be standing on a
reef in Fiji and have a massive school
of fish go jumping up around you, have
a, you know, huge storm begin, have it
quickly get sunny, and then see a whale
breach in front of you as you're trying
to hold on to the reef is is is, you
know, so strong you can barely stand up.
Show me what that's like, Google. And
that I Gavin was like the eyes of
God, universe, whatever it may be that
you could like what is it like to be a
42year-old man who's had this diet this
day, this trip out to the reef, this
childhood, this experience? Is it all
predetermined? And I do believe it is.
And so the answer to that question is I
believe it's out of my hands. I may get
the choices uh you know is there free
will something is presented to me go
left go right uh I I might get the
choice but what is presented to me what
is presented to me is not up to me.
>> Are you telling me that life is
consciousness trying to understand
itself. Someone said that to me once and
it was quite a compelling thought.
>> The idea was dropped into my skull so
quickly like it was a journalistic
report that said here's the way the
world works. something or somebody or
everybody or everything types into
Google what it wants to see and
occasionally you are the body that it
works through because if the rest of the
universe and by the way kind of
interesting this very moment we're in
Stephen because that experience I had is
now being relayed
>> to a few million people courtesy of you
and your question and that question in
this podcast. So now you do know a
little bit about what it's like to stand
in the water with the the current trying
to pull you over and see a whole school
of fish go around you and see a whale
breach right in front of you and see
this this massive rainstorm come and go
in a matter of minutes. Uh now you get a
little piece of that experience. Now do
I think here's the big the punchline. Do
I think I created that experience? No
way. I don't. I think it's
predetermined. And I think the I said to
you the scientific version is you're
gonna ask me this question and that's
the answer you're going to get. That's
what I believe based on what I ate
today, based on what I ate 40 years ago,
based on childhood, based on who you are
and who I am. That's the answer you're
going to get.
>> And who left the question
>> and who left it and how their day was
and what they ate that day and
everything else. I believe in
predetermination. It is um it comes from
a teacher of mine in India my best
teacher in life Nisarada wrote a book
called I am that recommended to
everybody and then his student who's now
died uh Romesh Basakar who I got to go
see and spend time with in India who was
an important teacher for me who
basically said
every day at 9:00 a.m. He had satsang in
his house basically. People could come
and ask questions. Uh uh and and it was
sort of he he happened to be Indian but
it was sort of Buddhist in nature. And
somebody said to him, "Well, are you
just saying we're all robots?" And he
said, "YES, EXACTLY CORRECT. We're all
robots." And then the person said,
"Well, why should I even get out of bed
in the morning?" And he said, "Try it.
Try and stay in bed." And he said,
"After a few days, you'll be up and
about. You'll be doing something. You'll
be motivated to do something." So um
that is my answer to your question which
obviously uh I only heard this second
and the answer only came this second.
Kevin, thank you. Thank you for opening
my eyes in so many ways. You've written
so many of these great books. All of
them I'm going to link below. The newest
one here is called Forbidden Facts:
Government Deceit and Suppression about
Brain Damage from Childhood Vaccines.
There's another book about children
here. Protecting the the gift, keeping
children and teenagers safe and parents
sane. The Gift of Fear, survival signals
that protect us from violence.
>> And I think those are the only three you
need to link. And my reason is these are
kind of specialty books
>> additions. Okay, fine. So, I'll link
these below for everyone to see. Um, I
highly recommend checking all of Gavin's
work work out. Um, and these are going
to be in the comment section below if if
anyone wants to read more about some of
the things we've touched on. You've
touched on all these books today, but if
you want to go deeper on any of these
subjects, this is your opportunity to do
so. And is there anywhere else people
can go to find you if they're interested
in your
>> I mean our website is gdba.com and
probably gavand debecker.com works. The
website is I don't even solicit new
clients. We don't have any marketing or
anything like that. The website is there
for one purpose which is attracting
candidates for employment because we are
hiring a lot of people all the time. So
that's what the website does but there
may be other information there that's
valuable for people. I don't know. Well,
if anyone's young and fit and strong and
wants to work with Gavin, then um I'll
link the website below as well to see
all of the jobs available. Gavin, thank
you so much. It's certainly I mean
there's so many things that blow my
mind, but one one of the most important
things for me is actually just this
lesson about intuition and that even and
that to listen to it more and to be more
upfront
with people when I my intuition isn't is
telling me something
>> because you're right. I think we're
we're all very good at um tuning the
volume of our intuition down and society
kind of teaches us to gaslight ourselves
and double guess. Gavin, thank you.
>> Uh thank you too and thanks for what
you're doing. You are one of my teachers
as well. Young man, I get to say at 71.
>> Thank you. YouTube have this new crazy
algorithm where they know exactly what
video you would like to watch next based
on AI and all of your viewing behavior.
And the algorithm says that this video
is the perfect video for you. It's
different for everybody looking right
now.